README.md, before:

# Real-Time Speech Transcription

This script uses OpenAI's Whisper model to transcribe speech from your microphone in real-time and type it into any window you choose. The script uses a two-step approach: language-agnostic detection for the trigger phrase, followed by Portuguese language transcription.

## Requirements

- Python 3.7+
- OpenAI Whisper (already installed)
- PyAudio
- NumPy
- Keyboard
- Pynput
- Pillow (for icon creation)
- Tkinter (for GUI)
- Pywin32 and Winshell (for desktop shortcut creation)

## Installation

1. The easiest way to set everything up is to run the setup script:

```bash
python setup.py
```

This will:
- Install all required dependencies
- Create the application icon
- Create a desktop shortcut

2. Alternatively, you can install the components individually:

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Create desktop shortcut
python create_desktop_shortcut.py
```

## Usage

### Starting with Desktop Shortcut

1. Double-click the "Real-Time Transcriber" shortcut on your desktop.

2. The application window will open, showing the status and a log of detection attempts.

### Pinning to Taskbar

To pin the application to your taskbar for easy access:

1. Start the application once using the desktop shortcut
2. Right-click on the application icon in the taskbar
3. Select "Pin to taskbar"

Now you can launch the application directly from your taskbar.

### Starting from Command Line

If you prefer to start from the command line, you can run:

```bash
pythonw gui_transcriber.py
```

The `pythonw` command runs the script without showing a terminal window.

### Using the Transcription Tool

1. When the application starts, it will load the Whisper model (this may take a moment).

2. Once loaded, the application will show "Aguardando comando 'Hey Jarvis'" (Waiting for 'Hey Jarvis' command).

3. Focus on the window where you want the text to appear.

4. Say the trigger phrase "Hey Jarvis" to activate transcription mode. The script can recognize variations like "Ei Jarvis" or even detect just the word "Jarvis".

5. The script will type "Sim?" to acknowledge it heard you.

6. Start speaking in Portuguese, and the script will:
   - Erase the "Sim?" acknowledgment
   - Type your transcribed speech in its place

7. **The transcription will automatically pause when you use your keyboard or mouse.** This prevents interference with your manual typing.

8. To resume transcription after using keyboard/mouse, say the trigger phrase "Hey Jarvis" again.

9. You can stop the transcription by:
   - Clicking the "Parar" (Stop) button in the application window
   - Pressing the `Esc` key
   - Closing the application window

## Graphical User Interface

The application has an improved graphical user interface that shows:

1. **Status Display**: Shows the current status of the transcription system (e.g., "Waiting for trigger", "Transcribing").

2. **Log Window**: Displays all detection attempts and transcription activities in real-time.

3. **Stop Button**: A large, easy-to-click button that allows you to stop the transcription process.

The window can be resized as needed, and no terminal window appears when launching from the shortcut.

## Trigger Detection Logging

The script logs detection attempts only when it's waiting for the trigger phrase (not during active transcription). Every time you speak:

- The script records what was actually detected by Whisper
- It logs whether the trigger was successfully recognized or missed
- All logs are stored in `whisper_detection_log.txt` with timestamps and shown in the GUI
- This helps identify common misinterpretations for future improvement

## Customization

- **Language Settings**: The script is currently configured to transcribe in Portuguese, but you can change it to any language by modifying the `language` parameter in the `model.transcribe()` function in the `process_audio()` method. For example:
  ```python
  # For English:
  result = self.model.transcribe(audio_data, fp16=False, language="en", task="transcribe")

  # For German:
  result = self.model.transcribe(audio_data, fp16=False, language="de", task="transcribe")

  # For Italian:
  result = self.model.transcribe(audio_data, fp16=False, language="it", task="transcribe")
  ```

- **Trigger Phrase Settings**: The script recognizes multiple variations of the trigger phrase. You can modify or add more variations by editing the `TRIGGER_VARIATIONS` list in the script.

- **Window Size**: The default window size is 600x400 pixels, but you can resize it as needed or modify the default size in the `gui_transcriber.py` file.

- Each recording segment is 3 seconds. You can adjust this by changing the `RECORD_SECONDS` variable.

- The cooldown period after keyboard/mouse activity is 2 seconds. You can adjust this by changing the `INPUT_COOLDOWN` variable.

## Notes

- The script uses the Whisper "large" model for improved accuracy.
- The trigger detection is language-agnostic to better recognize "Hey Jarvis" regardless of accent.
- The improved trigger detection can recognize various pronunciations and partial matches.
- All detection attempts are logged only during trigger detection (not during active transcription).
- After trigger detection, the script is configured to transcribe in Portuguese, but can be modified for other languages.
- The script adds a space after each transcription segment.
- For better performance, ensure you're in a quiet environment with clear speech.

Commit message:

Greatly improved trigger phrase detection with advanced recognition techniques

README.md, after:

# Real-Time Speech Transcription

This script uses OpenAI's Whisper model to transcribe speech from your microphone in real-time and type it into any window you choose. The script uses a two-step approach: language-agnostic detection for the trigger phrase, followed by Portuguese language transcription.

## Requirements

- Python 3.7+
- OpenAI Whisper (already installed)
- PyAudio
- NumPy
- Keyboard
- Pynput
- Pillow (for icon creation)
- Tkinter (for GUI)
- Pywin32 and Winshell (for desktop shortcut creation)

## Installation

1. The easiest way to set everything up is to run the setup script:

```bash
python setup.py
```

This will:
- Install all required dependencies
- Create the application icon
- Create a desktop shortcut

2. Alternatively, you can install the components individually:

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Create desktop shortcut
python create_desktop_shortcut.py
```

## Usage

### Starting with Desktop Shortcut

1. Double-click the "Real-Time Transcriber" shortcut on your desktop.

2. The application window will open, showing the status and a log of detection attempts.

### Pinning to Taskbar

To pin the application to your taskbar for easy access:

1. Start the application once using the desktop shortcut
2. Right-click on the application icon in the taskbar
3. Select "Pin to taskbar"

Now you can launch the application directly from your taskbar.

### Starting from Command Line

If you prefer to start from the command line, you can run:

```bash
pythonw gui_transcriber.py
```

The `pythonw` command runs the script without showing a terminal window.

### Using the Transcription Tool

1. When the application starts, it will load the Whisper model (this may take a moment).

2. Once loaded, the application will show "Aguardando comando 'Hey Jarvis'" (Waiting for 'Hey Jarvis' command).

3. Focus on the window where you want the text to appear.

4. Say the trigger phrase "Hey Jarvis" to activate transcription mode. The script can now recognize many variations and misinterpretations of this phrase, including:
   - Different first words: "Hey", "Ei", "Rei", etc.
   - Different second words: "Jarvis", "Service", "Travis", "Travess", "Servis", etc.
   - Combinations without spaces: "Heyjarvis", "Eijarvis"
   - Partial recognition where only part of the phrase is detected

5. The script will type "Sim?" to acknowledge it heard you.

6. Start speaking in Portuguese, and the script will:
   - Erase the "Sim?" acknowledgment
   - Type your transcribed speech in its place

7. **The transcription will automatically pause when you use your keyboard or mouse.** This prevents interference with your manual typing.

8. To resume transcription after using keyboard/mouse, say the trigger phrase "Hey Jarvis" again.

9. You can stop the transcription by:
   - Clicking the "Parar" (Stop) button in the application window
   - Pressing the `Esc` key
   - Closing the application window

## Graphical User Interface

The application has an improved graphical user interface that shows:

1. **Status Display**: Shows the current status of the transcription system (e.g., "Waiting for trigger", "Transcribing").

2. **Log Window**: Displays all detection attempts and transcription activities in real-time.

3. **Stop Button**: A large, easy-to-click button that allows you to stop the transcription process.

The window can be resized as needed, and no terminal window appears when launching from the shortcut.

## Trigger Detection Logging

The script logs detection attempts only when it's waiting for the trigger phrase (not during active transcription). Every time you speak:

- The script records what was actually detected by Whisper
- It logs whether the trigger was successfully recognized or missed
- All logs are stored in `whisper_detection_log.txt` with timestamps and shown in the GUI
- This helps identify common misinterpretations for future improvement

## Advanced Trigger Detection

The system uses a sophisticated multi-layered approach to detect the trigger phrase:

1. **Exact Match Detection**: Checks for an exact match from over 40 different variations of "Hey Jarvis"
2. **Proximity Detection**: Checks if parts of the trigger (like "hey" and "jarvis") are close to each other in the transcription
3. **Partial Detection**: Checks if important parts of the trigger (like "jarvis", "service", etc.) appear at the beginning of the transcription
4. **Context Detection**: Looks for patterns that resemble activation commands, such as phrases starting with "ok", "hey", etc.

This approach dramatically improves detection reliability, especially when Whisper misinterprets parts of the trigger phrase.

## Customization

- **Language Settings**: The script is currently configured to transcribe in Portuguese, but you can change it to any language by modifying the `language` parameter in the `model.transcribe()` function in the `process_audio()` method. For example:
  ```python
  # For English:
  result = self.model.transcribe(audio_data, fp16=False, language="en", task="transcribe")

  # For German:
  result = self.model.transcribe(audio_data, fp16=False, language="de", task="transcribe")

  # For Italian:
  result = self.model.transcribe(audio_data, fp16=False, language="it", task="transcribe")
  ```

- **Trigger Phrase Settings**: The script recognizes multiple variations of the trigger phrase. You can modify or add more variations by editing the `TRIGGER_VARIATIONS` list in the script.

- **Window Size**: The default window size is 600x400 pixels, but you can resize it as needed or modify the default size in the `gui_transcriber.py` file.

- Each recording segment is 3 seconds. You can adjust this by changing the `RECORD_SECONDS` variable.

- The cooldown period after keyboard/mouse activity is 2 seconds. You can adjust this by changing the `INPUT_COOLDOWN` variable.

## Notes

- The script uses the Whisper "large" model for improved accuracy.
- The trigger detection is language-agnostic to better recognize "Hey Jarvis" regardless of accent.
- The improved trigger detection can recognize various pronunciations and partial matches.
- All detection attempts are logged only during trigger detection (not during active transcription).
- After trigger detection, the script is configured to transcribe in Portuguese, but can be modified for other languages.
- The script adds a space after each transcription segment.
- For better performance, ensure you're in a quiet environment with clear speech.
